github commands

1. git --version tells github version installed on our machine
2. when we first install git we have to configure the github
     git config --global user.name "PSR" and press enter
     git config --global user.email "email name" and press enter
     global means this user
3. git config --list
   list the settings

4. to view only one stting
   git config --user.email

5. Creating a repository
   create a folder where you want to store your project files anc components.
   give the folder location using cd command.
   type git init

6. Adding and Committing
   create / copy files inside the repository
   git add . --> adds the file to git repo
   git add -a

   git commit -m "mesaage" --> commits the file to git repo


   Explanation - There is a two step process steps to add a file to git repo
    Add - adds the file from local to staging area\
    Commit - adds the file from the staging area to repo

7. Viewing the logs
   git log
   to view log from a particular author
   git log --author="name"

8. to find the status of repo
    git status

9. to view the differnces if the file is modified
   git diff
   displays the differences between working copy and the repository
   git diff --staged 
   displays the differences between the working area and the staging area

10. deleting the file
    git -rm filename
    git commit -m"message" --> to commit the delete in the repository

11. directly committing to repository.( there is no need to add to push the changes to staging area)
    git commit -am "message"
    Not to use this command unless there are very small changes to file .
    Shoud never be used if there are addition or deletion of files

12. Undoing the changes from repository
    In a situation where you have committed unwanted changes and want to bring back the last version to working copy
    git checkout filename

13. Undoing the changes from stage --> Unstaging the files
	In a situation where you have staged the changes but then realized that you don't want to commit
	git reset HEAD filename

14. Renaming the files
	git mv oldfilename newfilename

15. Initializing the git repo and connecting it to git hub
     Open a publiic repository in github without initilaizing it.
     git init - initialize the local folder
     Copy the url for the repositry
     git remote add reponame url --> connect the repo in the github with the local git repo
     git push -u reponame master --> will upload the files to github
      git remote - find the reponame

16. git clone url - to clone the repo ( only possible for main bracnh) 
    Note - Init the local repo before you try a clone

17. git clone -b first-thumb-start https://github.com/udacity/exoplanet-explorer ( example of cloning a branch first-thumb-start from the project url 
	https://github.com/udacity/exoplanet-explorer)

